## Instincts

### 10/15/17

Instincts, in the context of this project, refer to the known knowledge prior to the operation of the consciousness loop. In layman's terms, this means that any hard-coded or learned information inside of an agent before it has been given the option to learn on its own is considered instinctual. This means that any machine learning agents that are never given a consciousness loop are considered instinctual agents. Thus, all "weak" intelligence algorithms full under this category.

This terminology is important for several reasons. First, instinctual information is present right from the initiation of the agent before it even begins it's the learning process. Any information that is present is likely to remain with the agent for an extended period of time. This is also extremely important for guiding the agent through the learning process. An agent with a consciousness loop may attempt to spend much of its initial lifetime simply trying to figure out the controls. This has a major hindrance of the operation of the agent. On the other hand, an agent with basic controls and environmental understanding instincts may begin the learning process almost immediately. In addition, the same instincts may be applied to multiple agents to rapidly decrease training time. A single network may be trained instinctually under it has a basic grasp of its environment and its moral guidelines. This single network can then be instanced any number of times and each gives a custom consciousness loop where they could further develop their own behaviors and personalities.

Instinctual networks are also important for the fact that they are extremely fast. A single well-trained deep neural network may identify a cat in an image in just a few milliseconds, while a conscious agent may take a significant period of time. (Having to obtain its objective, learn how to obtain its objective, and finally work through the process of actually identifying it.) This being said, it is imperative for a conscious agent to have multiple instinctual networks at its disposal for bringing even minor tasks back into a reasonable operation time frame.
